So you talked about diagnostics that scales a possible solution
to, uh, future pandemics. What about another possible solution, which is, uh,
kind of creating a backup copy?
You know, I'm actually now, um, uh,
putting together a NAS for a backup for myself for the first time taking backup
of data seriously. Mm <affirmative>. But if we were to take the, uh,
the backup of human consciousness seriously and, uh,
try to expand throughout the, uh, solar system and colonize at the planets,
do you think that's an interesting, uh, solution, one of many,
uh, for, uh, protecting human civilizations from self destruction,
sort of humans becoming a multi planetary species? Oh, absolutely.
I mean, I find it electrifying first of all.
So I've got a little bit of a personal bias when I was a kid,
I thought there was nothing cooler than rockets.
I thought there was nothing cooler than NASA.
I thought there was nothing cooler than people walking on the moon.
And as I grew up, um,
I thought there was nothing more tragic than the fact that we went from walking
on the moon to at best getting to something like sub altitude.
And just,
I found that more and more depressing with the passage of decades at just the
colossal expense of, you know,
man's space travel and the fact that it seemed that we were unlikely to ever get
back to the moon, let alone Mars.
So I have a boundless appreciation for Elon Musk for many reasons.
The fact that he has put Mars on the incredible agenda is one of the things that
I appreciate immensely.
So there's just this sort of space nerd in me that just says, God, that's cool,
but on a more practical level, we were talking about, you know, uh,
potentially inhabiting planets that aren't our own.
And thinking about a benign civilization that would do that in,
in planetary circumstances where we're not causing other conscious systems to
suffer. I mean, Mars is the place that's very promising.
There may be microbial life there. And I hope there is. And if we found it,
I think it would be electrifying.
But I think ultimately the more judgment would be made that, you know,
the continued thriving of that microbial life is of less concern
than creating a habitable planet to humans,
which would be a project on the many thousands of years scale.
But I don't think that that would be a greatly imoral act.
And if that happened and if Mars became, you know,
home to a self sustaining group of humans that could survive a catastrophic
mistake here on earth, then yeah. The fact that we have a backup colon is great.
And if we could make more, I'm sorry, not backup colony backup copy is great.
And if we could make more and more such backup co copies throughout the solar
system, by hollowing out asteroids and whatever else it is, maybe even Venus,
we can get rid of three quarters of its atmosphere and, you know,
turn it into a tropical paradise. Um,
I think all of that is wonderful now whether we can make the leap from that to
inter stellar trans transportation with the incredible distances that are
involved. Um, I think that's an open question, but I think if we ever do that,
it would be more like the Pacific
oceans, uh,
channel of human expansion than the Atlantic oceans.
And so what I mean by that is, uh,
when we think about European society transmitting itself across the Atlantic
mm-hmm, <affirmative>, it's these big ambitious,
crazy expensive one shot expeditions like Columbus mm-hmm <affirmative> to
make it across this enormous expanse. And at least initially without all,
any certainty that there's land on the other end. Right?
So that's kind knew how I view our space program is like big,
you know, very conscious deliberate efforts to get from point a to point B.
If you look at how Pacific Islanders, um,
transmitted, you know,
their descendants and their culture and so forth throughout Polynesian,
beyond it was much more, you know, inhabiting a place,
getting to the point where there were people who were ambitious or unwelcome
enough to decide it's time to go off island and find the next one and pray to
find the next one.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> that method of transmission didn't happen in a single conf
swift year, but it happened over many, many centuries.
And it was like going from this island at that island and probably for every
expedition that went out to seek another island and actually lucked out and
found one, God knows how many were lost at sea,
but that form of transmission took place over a very long period of time.
And I could see us, you know, perhaps, you know,
going from the inner solar system to the outer solar system, to the hyper belt,
to the ort cloud, you know, there's there theories that there might be,
you know, planets out there that are not anchored to stars, like kind of hop,
hop slowly, transmitting ourselves.
So at some point we're actually in alpha Centuri,
but I think that kind of backup copy and transmission of our physical presence
and our culture to a diversity of, you know,
extra Tores real, um, outposts is a really exciting.
Idea. I really never thought about that because I, I have thought
my thinking about space exploration has be very Atlantic ocean centric in a
sense that there would be one program with NASA and maybe private, uh,
Elon Musk, SpaceX, or jet Bezos and so on.
But it's true that with the help of Elon Musk,
making it cheaper and cheaper and more effective to create these technologies
where you could, uh, go into deep space,
perhaps the way we actually economize the solar system. And,
um,
and expand out into the galaxy is basically just like these like
Renegade ships of, of, uh, weirdos. <laugh>,
it's just kind of like, like home,
like most of them like quote unquote homemade, uh,
but they just kind of venture out into space and just like, like, you know,
the Android,
the initial Android model of like millions of like these little ships just
flying out, most of them die off, uh, in horrible accidents,
but some of them will, will persist.
There'll be stories of them persisting and over a period of decades and
centuries,
there'll be other attempts almost always as a response to the main set of
efforts. That's interesting. Yeah.
You kind of think of Mars colonization as the big NASA Elon Musk effort
of a big colony, but maybe the successful one would be, you know,
like a decade after that, there'll be like a ship from like some kid,
some high school kid who gets together a large team and does something probably
illegal and launches something where they end up actually persisting quite
a bit. And from that learning lessons that, uh, nobody ever gave permission for,
but somehow actually flourish. And, and then take that into the scale of,
um, centuries forward. Mm-hmm <affirmative> into the,
into the rest of the space. That's really interesting.
Yeah. I think, I think the giant steps are likely to be NASA like efforts.
Like there, there is no intermediate rock, well, I guess it's a moon,
but even getting in the moon, ain't that easy between us and Mars, right?
So like the giant set steps, the, the big hubs, like the O'Hara airports yeah.
Of the future probably will be very deliberate efforts. But then, you know,
you would have,
I think that kind of diffusion mm-hmm <affirmative> as space travel becomes more
democratized and more capable.
You'll have this sort of natural diffusion of people who kind of wanna be off
grid or think they can make a fortune there, you know,
the kind of mentality that drove people to San Francisco. I mean,
San Francisco was not populated as a result of king Ford and an Isabella
like effort to fund Columbus going over.
It was just a whole bunch of people making individuals decisions that there's
gold than th Hills, and I'm gonna go out and get a piece of it.
So I could see that kind of future what I can't see.
And the reason that I think this Pacific model of transmission is more likely is
I just can't see a NASA like effort to go from earth to alpha
Sanur it's just too far.
I just see lots and lots and lots of relatively tiny steps
between now and there. And the fact is that there is,
there are large chunks of matter going at least a light year beyond the sun.
I mean the, or cloud, I think extends at least a light year beyond the sun. And,
you know, then maybe there are these untethered planets after that.
We won't really know till we get there.
And if our or cloud goes outta light year and alpha cent or cloud goes outta
light year, you've already cut in half the distance mm-hmm <affirmative>,
you know, so who knows, but yeah.
One of the possibilities,
probably the cheapest and most effectively to create interesting
Intertel spacecraft is, uh, ones that are powered and driven by AI.
And you could think of here's where you have high school students be able to
build a, sort of a, how 9,000 version of modern version of that.
And it's kind of interesting to think about <laugh> these, uh,
robots traveling out throughout perhaps perhaps
sadly long after human civilization is gone.
There would be these intelligent robots flying throughout space and perhaps
land on, uh, office entire B or, and of those kinds of planets and,
uh, and colonize sort
humanity continues through the
proliferation of our creations, like, uh,
like robotic creations that have some echoes of that, uh, intelligence,
hopefully also the consciousness.